Add smithy-java quickstart guide to documentation site (#2517)
smithy-lang/smithy: docs/source-2.0/java/quickstart.rst

===============
Java Quickstart
===============

This guide introduces `Smithy Java <https://github.com/smithy-lang/smithy-java>`_ with a simple working example of a generated server and client.

> For this example, imagine that you are the proud owner of a coffee shop.
> You have a Smithy-modeled API that allows your customers to order some java from their Java apps.
> Users can use the generated SDK to list available coffees, order a coffee, and track the status of their order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, imagine that you are the proud owner of a coffee shop.
Your API allows your customers to order some _java_ from their Java applications, and it is modeled with Smithy.
Users can use your SDK to list available coffees, order a coffee, and track the status of their order.
```

* The ability to order a coffee.
* The ability to check the status of an order.

The service has the ``@restJson1`` protocol trait applied indicating that the service supports the :ref:`AWS restJson1 protocol <aws-restjson1-protocol>`.

.. code-block:: smithy
    :caption: smithy/model/weather.smithy

    /// Allows users to retrieve a menu, create a coffee order, and
    /// and to view the status of their orders
    @title("Coffee Shop Service")
    @restJson1
    service CoffeeShop {
        ...
    }

Protocols define the rules and conventions for serializing and de-serializing data when communicating between client and server.
Services can support multiple protocols at once.

-------------------
Running the project
-------------------

First, start the coffee shop service by executing the following command:

.. code-block:: sh

    ./gradlew :server:run

This will start the coffee shop server on port ``8888`` and log the following to the console:

.. code-block:: sh
    :caption: terminal output

    INFO: Starting server...
    INFO: Started listening on http://localhost:8888

.. note::

    Timestamps are omitted from console logs for the sake of brevity.

> To confirm the service is working, request the menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm the service is working, request the menu:
```

        },
        {
          "type": "POUR_OVER",
          "description": "Similar to drip coffee, but with a process that brings out more subtle nuances in flavor.\nMore concentrated than drip, but less than espresso.\n"
        },
        {
          "type": "LATTE",
          "description": "A creamier, milk-based drink made with espresso.\nA subtle coffee taste, with smooth texture.\nHigh milk-to-coffee ratio.\n"
        },
        {
          "type": "ESPRESSO",
          "description": "A highly concentrated form of coffee, brewed under high pressure.\nSyrupy, thick liquid in a small serving size.\nFull bodied and intensely aromatic.\n"
        }
      ]
    }

.. tip::

    Use the ``jq``` command line utility to pretty-print the output of the ``curl`` command above.

You may stop the server with ``CTRL + C``` in the terminal where it is running.
With the server running, we can now call it with our client application.
In a separate terminal, execute the client application:

.. code-block:: sh

    ./gradlew :client:run

The client application will use a code-generated Java SDK for the coffee shop service to:

> 1. Create a new coffee order for a refreshing COLD_BREW coffee.
> 2. Wait a few seconds for the order to complete
> 3. Call the service again to get the order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new coffee order for a refreshing COLD_BREW coffee,
2. Wait a few seconds for the order to complete, and
3. Call the service again to get the order
```

The client terminal will print the following to the console (your order ID will differ):

.. code-block:: sh
    :caption: terminal output

    INFO: Created request with id = f526ddca-105c-4f89-a754-a10ea542c84b
    INFO: Got order with id = f526ddca-105c-4f89-a754-a10ea542c84b
    INFO: Waiting for order to complete....
    INFO: Completed Order :GetOrderOutput[id=f526ddca-105c-4f89-a754-a10ea542c84b, coffee

----------------------------
Make a change to the service
----------------------------

> In this section you will update the Coffee shop server application to support additional functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will update the Coffee shop server application to support additional functionality.
```

We would like to add a new operation to our service that allows users to get the hours of our cafe.

> The new operation, ``GetHours`` should be bound directly to our service shape, take no input, and should return an output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new operation, ``GetHours``, should be bound directly to our service shape, take no input, and should return an output
```

> with both the opening and closing times. We will host this operation on the route ``/hours``  and the reported hours

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with both the opening and closing times. We will host this operation on the route ``/hours`` , and the reported hours
```

> will be expressed in whole hours using 24hr time (i.e. 1PM is 13).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be expressed in hours using 24hr time (i.e. 1PM is 13).
```

Model Update
============

> First, the new operation must be added to our service model in the smithy package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, the new operation must be added to our service model in the smithy package:
```

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: smithy/model/main.smithy

    service CoffeeShop {
        version: "2024-08-23"
        operations: [
            GetMenu,
    +       GetHours
        ]
        resources: [
            Order
        ]
    }

    + /// Retrieve the coffee shop hours.
    + @http(method: "GET", uri: "/hours")
    + @readonly
    + operation GetHours{
    +    output := {
    +        opensAt: Hour
    +        closesAt: Hour
    +     }
    + }

    + // Hours for a day expressed in 24hr time
    + @range(min: 0, max: 24)
    + integer Hour

Server Update
=============

> With our service model updated, we now need to add the new functionality to our server. First, rebuild the project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our service model updated, we need to add the new functionality to our server. First, rebuild the project:
```

.. code-block:: sh

    ./gradlew clean build

This will fail with a compilation error:

.. code-block:: sh
    :caption: ``build`` output

    error: cannot find symbol
    ...
            .addGetMenuOperation(new GetMenu())
                                    ^
      symbol:   method addGetMenuOperation(GetMenu)
      location: interface GetHoursStage

Smithy Java **requires** that an implementation of a generated operation interface be registered with the server for

> every operation defined in service model. Let’s add the required implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every operation defined in service model. Let’s add the required implementation:
```

.. code-block:: java
    :caption: server/src/main/java/io/smithy/java/server/example/GetHoursOperation.java

    final class GetHours implements GetHoursOperation {
        @Override
        public GetHoursOutput getHours(GetHoursInput input, RequestContext context) {
            return GetHoursOutput.builder()
                    .opensAt(9) // Opens at 9AM
                    .closesAt(16) // Closes at 4PM
                    .build();
        }
    }

> And register this operation with our service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, register this operation with our service:
```

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: server/src/main/java/io/smithy/java/server/example/CafeService.java

    CoffeeShop.builder()
            .addCreateOrderOperation(new CreateOrder())
    +       .addGetHoursOperation(new GetHours())
            .addGetMenuOperation(new GetMenu())
            ...

Now, re-start our server

.. code-block:: sh

    ./gradlew server:run

> We can now test the new operation using curl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we can test the new operation using curl:
```

.. code-block:: sh

    curl localhost:8888/hours

Which will return the hours of our Cafe:

.. code-block:: java
    :caption: ``curl`` output

    {"opensAt":9,"closesAt":16}

Client Update
=============

> What if we want to call our newly created operation from our client application?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What if we want to call our new operation from our client application?
```

The client code generator will automatically add the ``getHours`` operation to the generated client,
we just need to call it in our client application:

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: client/src/main/java/io/smithy/java/client/example/Main.java

    public static void main(String[] args) throws InterruptedException {
    +   LOGGER.info(client.getHours(GetHoursInput.builder().build()).toString());

> Now, with the server still running, call our client one more time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the server still running, call our client one more time:
```
